gpMgmt/go-utils/src/gp_upgrade/README.md, before:

# gp_upgrade

## Developer Workflow

### Prerequisites

- Golang. We currently develop against latest stable Golang, which was v1.8.3 as of June 2017
- Either `direnv`, or manually set your GOPATH. See the
  [overall go-utils README](../../README.md) for more information

You can run `make dependencies`, but most make targets will call it for you

### Build and test the upgrade tool

```
make
```
from here, the gp_upgrade directory, should build and then test the code

### Build details

```
make build
```
should build the code without running the tests

We build with a ldflag to set the version of the code (whatever git sha we
were on at build-time)

We build into $GOPATH/bin/gp_upgrade, and expect that after a build,
`which gp_upgrade` is what you just built, assuming your PATH is configured
correctly

We build as part of our (integration tests)[#integration-testing]; see more
information there

We support cross-compilation into Linux or Darwin, as the GPDB servers that
this tool upgrades run Linux, but many dev workstations are macOS

```apple js
make platforms
```
should be equivalent to `make linux && make darwin`

### Run the tests

```
make test
```
should run all tests we consider the bar for ship-ability of this code.

## Command line parsing

We are using [the go-flags library](https://github.com/jessevdk/go-flags) for
parsing our commands and flags.

The way in which go-flags executes commands is through the `Parse` function.
`Parse` not only parses the commands but also executes them.

To implement a new command, first define a struct, such as `CheckCommand`.

On this struct, define a function `Execute` so that your new struct satisfies
[the `Commander` interface of go-flags](https://github.com/jessevdk/go-flags/blob/4cc2832a6e6d1d3b815e2b9d544b2a4dfb3ce8fa/command.go#L42).

Finally, add your command to the AllCommands struct to tell the parser about your new command.

## Testing

### Unit testing overall

```
make unit
```
should only run the unit tests

We use ginkgo and gomega because they provide BDD-style syntax while still
running `go test` under the hood. Core team members strive to TDD the code as
much as possible so that the unit test coverage is driven out alongside the code

We use dependency injection wherever possible to enable isolated unit tests
and drive towards clear interfaces across packages

We keep our `_test.go` files in the same package as the implementations they test because
occasionally, we find it easiest and most valuable to either:

- unit test private methods
- make assertions about the internal state of the struct

We selected this unit testing approach rather than these alternatives:

- putting unit tests in a different package and then needing to make many more functions
  and struct attributes public than necessary
- defining dependencies that aren't under test as `var`s and then redefining
  them at test-time

### Unit testing command line parsing and execution

The implementation of any command's `Execute` function should be as thin as possible.
`Execute` functions should only:

- make in-memory Golang objects
- inject them into the appropriate (private) `execute` function for that command

This lets us write unit tests for gp_upgrade using the dependency injection
pattern. We are able to call `execute` with our fake dependencies as arguments.

### Integration testing

```
make integration
```
should only run the integration tests

In order to run the integration tests, the greenplum database must be up and
running.
We typically integration test the "happy path" expected behavior of the code
when writing new features. We allow the unit tests to cover error messaging
and other edge cases. We are not strict about outside-in (integration-first)
or inside-out (unit-first) TDD.

Integration tests here signify end-to-end testing from the outside, starting
with a call to an actual gp_upgrade binary. Therefore, the integration tests
do their own `Build()` of the code, using the gomega `gexec` library.

The default integration tests do not build with the special build flags that
the Makefile uses because the capability of the code to react to those build
flags is specifically tested where needed, for example in
[version_integration_test.go](integrations/version_integration_test.go)

The integration tests may require other binaries to be built. We aim to have
any such requirements automated.

Commit message:

Removed dependencies on gpbackup.
Made local versions of the database and OS utility functions.

Added a retry loop to wait for the test-rig sshd service to come up. The
integration tests can fail with a "no socket" error, and we perceive a
race to get that sshd service up before a test can proceed.

Signed-off-by: Larry Hamel <lhamel@pivotal.io>

gpMgmt/go-utils/src/gp_upgrade/README.md, after:

# gp_upgrade

## Developer Workflow

### Prerequisites

- Golang. We currently develop against latest stable Golang, which was v1.8.3 as of June 2017
- For GOPATH, in the Makefile, we set a combination path, with the default ~/go as the first entry, 
and the path to go-utils/ as the second entry. This allows all dependencies to be download by "go get"
into the ~/go/ directory, away from the gpdb/ sources. See the
  [overall go-utils README](../../README.md) for more information

You can run `make dependencies`, but most make targets will call it for you

### Build and test the upgrade tool

```
make
```
from here, the gp_upgrade directory, should build and then test the code

### Build details

```
make build
```
should build the code without running the tests

We build with a ldflag to set the version of the code (whatever git sha we
were on at build-time)

We build into $GOPATH/bin/gp_upgrade, and expect that after a build,
`which gp_upgrade` is what you just built, assuming your PATH is configured
correctly

We build as part of our (integration tests)[#integration-testing]; see more
information there

We support cross-compilation into Linux or Darwin, as the GPDB servers that
this tool upgrades run Linux, but many dev workstations are macOS

```apple js
make platforms
```
should be equivalent to `make linux && make darwin`

### Run the tests

```
make test
```
should run all tests we consider the bar for ship-ability of this code.

## Command line parsing

We are using [the go-flags library](https://github.com/jessevdk/go-flags) for
parsing our commands and flags.

The way in which go-flags executes commands is through the `Parse` function.
`Parse` not only parses the commands but also executes them.

To implement a new command, first define a struct, such as `CheckCommand`.

On this struct, define a function `Execute` so that your new struct satisfies
[the `Commander` interface of go-flags](https://github.com/jessevdk/go-flags/blob/4cc2832a6e6d1d3b815e2b9d544b2a4dfb3ce8fa/command.go#L42).

Finally, add your command to the AllCommands struct to tell the parser about your new command.

## Testing

### Unit testing overall

```
make unit
```
should only run the unit tests

We use ginkgo and gomega because they provide BDD-style syntax while still
running `go test` under the hood. Core team members strive to TDD the code as
much as possible so that the unit test coverage is driven out alongside the code

We use dependency injection wherever possible to enable isolated unit tests
and drive towards clear interfaces across packages

We keep our `_test.go` files in the same package as the implementations they test because
occasionally, we find it easiest and most valuable to either:

- unit test private methods
- make assertions about the internal state of the struct

We selected this unit testing approach rather than these alternatives:

- putting unit tests in a different package and then needing to make many more functions
  and struct attributes public than necessary
- defining dependencies that aren't under test as `var`s and then redefining
  them at test-time

### Unit testing command line parsing and execution

The implementation of any command's `Execute` function should be as thin as possible.
`Execute` functions should only:

- make in-memory Golang objects
- inject them into the appropriate (private) `execute` function for that command

This lets us write unit tests for gp_upgrade using the dependency injection
pattern. We are able to call `execute` with our fake dependencies as arguments.

### Integration testing

```
make integration
```
should only run the integration tests

In order to run the integration tests, the greenplum database must be up and
running.
We typically integration test the "happy path" expected behavior of the code
when writing new features. We allow the unit tests to cover error messaging
and other edge cases. We are not strict about outside-in (integration-first)
or inside-out (unit-first) TDD.

Integration tests here signify end-to-end testing from the outside, starting
with a call to an actual gp_upgrade binary. Therefore, the integration tests
do their own `Build()` of the code, using the gomega `gexec` library.

The default integration tests do not build with the special build flags that
the Makefile uses because the capability of the code to react to those build
flags is specifically tested where needed, for example in
[version_integration_test.go](integrations/version_integration_test.go)

The integration tests may require other binaries to be built. We aim to have
any such requirements automated.
